Create Nudge (#39)
transferwise/neptune: components/nudge.md

# Nudge

Nudge is an interactive component that directs users to take an action on something that might be relevant at the time they see it.

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to use it
```

> Use a nudge to direct a user’s attention to an improvement, a new feature, or something they can do that they might not be aware of yet. Think of them as a friend going ‘hey, this might be useful for you!’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a nudge to upsell a new feature, or something the user can do that they might not be aware of yet. Think of them as a friend going ‘hey, this might be useful for you!’.
```

Author: I know that the term `upsell` is sometimes used within the design team to describe the action of offering additional features to our users, but it doesn't sit well with me.

It uses the term `sell`, when it's almost never a feature that gets the user to purchase something or pay more. And while you could make a case that the origin of the term doesn't matter as much as people's understanding of it, it's not a term I see in the industry to describe patterns that are not attempting to get the user to actually spend money on things, as opposed to offering conveniences. I couldn't find any references of upselling online that are not directly linked to selling something.

@StephanieTW Would love to know what you think!

Reviewer: @gusso that's a very good point. 'Upsell' does suggest the feature will cost money, which isn't true in many cases.

'Direct a users' attention' to me felt a little vague in light of questions we had about people using the nudge for informational purposes. How about we replace 'Upsell' with 'suggest' instead? E.g. say 'Use the nudge to suggest a new feature...'  WDYT?

Author: Absolutely, yes! I think ‘suggest’ is great.

Reviewer: Yay!

Author: ```suggestion
Use a nudge to suggest a new feature, or something the user can do that they might not be aware of yet. Think of them as a friend going ‘hey, this might be useful for you!’.
```

> ## Alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When not to use it
```

Nudges should not communicate critical information or require time sensitive action. So consider another component if:

> - Your content won’t take the user anywhere, or doesn’t direct them to an action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your content won’t take the user anywhere, or doesn’t direct them to an action
```

> - Your content is essential to the user’s purpose on that screen. Nudges should always be about an optional feature that not everyone needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your content is essential to the user’s purpose on that screen — nudges should always be about an optional feature that not everyone needs
```

For these cases, consider using copy or an alert, and showing a button to navigate them to a new screen.

## Screen placement

Nudges are placed at the top of the page or section they apply to, or below a section header. There is never more than one nudge on the same screen.

## Interaction

The whole component should be clickable or tappable. The content should direct users to another view to complete an action.

## Content

### The main sentence

Should start with a verb and describe the action the user might like to take. Short sentences help users complete tasks quicker — so aim for 4-6 words. Test the copy in different languages - eg. German or Russian.

### The CTA

> Should be 2-3 words long and describe the ultimate action the user will take in-product. It should be specific and start with a verb. For instance - ‘add’, ‘enable’, ‘find’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should be 1-3 words long and describe the action the user will take. It should be specific and start with a verb — for instance, ‘add’, ‘enable’, ‘find’. The first letter of the first word should be capitalised.
```

It should also match the copy of the ultimate action the user takes in-product.

### Optional benefit sentence

> If you have clear qual/quant evidence that a user won’t explore a nudge without a clear benefit, you may include a short ‘benefit’ sentence after the main sentence. The sentence should offer a comparative. For instance — ‘faster’, ‘safer’, ‘cheaper’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have clear qual/quant evidence that a user won’t explore a nudge without a clear benefit, you may include a short ‘benefit’ sentence after the main sentence. The sentence should offer a comparative. For instance — ‘faster’, ‘safer’, ‘cheaper’.
```

> If you have clear qual/quant evidence that a user won’t explore a nudge without a clear benefit, you may include a short ‘benefit’ sentence after the main sentence. The sentence should offer a comparative. For instance — ‘faster’, ‘safer’, ‘cheaper’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have clear qual/quant evidence that a user won’t explore a nudge without a clear benefit, you may include a short ‘benefit’ sentence after the main sentence. Make the benefit tangible by saying how it helps the user. For instance — ‘faster’, ‘safer’, ‘cheaper’.
```

## Elements

| Element | Description                                                                    | Text Style | Required |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | -------- |
| Title   | Main piece of text that describes the action. Should always start with a verb. | Title 4    | ✅       |

> | CTA     | 2-3 words describing an ultimate action.                                       | Title 5    | ✅       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CTA     | 2-3 words describing an action.                                       | Title 5    | ✅       |
```

- Your content won’t take the user anywhere, or doesn’t direct them to an action

- Your content is essential to the user’s purpose on that screen — nudges should always be about an optional feature that not everyone needs

For these cases, consider using copy or an alert, and showing a button to navigate them to a new screen.

## Screen placement

Nudges are placed at the top of the page or section they apply to, or below a section header. There is never more than one nudge on the same screen.

## Interaction

The whole component should be clickable or tappable. The content should direct users to another view to complete an action.

## Content guidelines

### The main sentence

Should start with a verb and describe the action the user might like to take. Short sentences help users complete tasks quicker — so aim for 4-6 words. Test the copy in different languages - eg. German or Russian.

### The CTA

Should be 1-3 words long and describe the action the user will take. It should be specific and start with a verb — for instance, ‘add’, ‘enable’, ‘find’. The first letter of the first word should be capitalised.

> It should also match the copy of the ultimate action the user takes in-product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The copy should also match the action the user will take.
```

- Tonally, it matches what you’d say out loud if you were selling this to a friend
- The CTA is short, starts with a verb, and matches the action the user will take

### ✅⠀Good usage with optional benefit sentence

> Switch to app-based login. It’s more secure than SMS.  
> **Enable now**

#### Why?

- The main sentence is short, clear, and starts with a verb
- The benefit sentence is short and includes a clear benefit — ‘more secure’
- The CTA is short, starts with a verb, and matches the action the user will take

### ❌⠀Bad usage

> Start paying for things with Apple Pay by adding your card!  
> **Learn more about this**

#### Why?

- The main sentence is too long, too ambiguous, with an unnecessary exclamation mark
- Although the main sentence starts with a verb, there are two more unnecessary verbs
- The CTA is too long, non-specific, and does not match the action the user takes

### ❌⠀Bad usage with optional benefit sentence

> Find the people you know who use TransferWise! You’ll never need to ask for bank details again.  
> **Explore what you can do**

#### Why?

- The main sentence is too long, too ambiguous, with an unnecessary exclamation mark

> - There may be no evidence the benefit sentence is necessary, and it doesn’t offer a comparative

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There may be no evidence the benefit sentence is necessary
```

- The CTA is too long and non-specific

## Elements

| Element | Description                                                                    | Text Style | Required |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | -------- |
| Title   | Main piece of text that describes the action. Should always start with a verb. | Title 4    | ✅       |

> | CTA     | 2-3 words describing an action.                                                | Title 5    | ✅       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CTA     | 1-3 words describing an action.                                                | Title 5    | ✅       |
```
